[PROJECTOR WIRING]
[CARLITOS] My father took these.
He was a maniac for the camera.
That's me.
That's Felipe and Nando.
That's Alex Morales.
He died instantly.
That's Antonio,
captain of the team.
After 20 years,
you analyze a lot.
You remember people, heroism.
"The Miracle of the Andes",
that's what they called it.
Many people
come up to me and say
that had they been there,
they surely would have died.
But that makes no sense.
Because until you're
in a situation like that...
you have no idea
how you'll behave.
To be affronted by solitude
without decadence,
or a single material thing
to prostitute it
elevates you
to a spiritual plane...
where I felt
the presence of God.
Now, there's the God they taught
me about at school...
and there is the God
that's hidden
by what surrounds us
in this civilization.
That's the God I met
on the mountain.
[PEOPLE CHATTERING]
Steward, could you get me
some tea, please?
Yes, sir.
- Want some tea?
- No, thanks.
That's it.
[PEOPLE CHATTERING]
[MAN] Come on, Diego!
Throw it here! Over here!
Here! Hey, Juan!
Watch out!
Where did you stay in Paris,
left bank, or the right?
Excuse me, please.
Paris is not for you, Canessa.
- Why not?
- You're too intense for Paris.
How can I justify
that to the guys?
He missed practice one day last
week, and once the week before.
- I think he is all right.
- He missed the plane too.
Look, I'm team captain.
I'll say what's okay.
If you wanna play rugby,
if you wanna play on a team,
you got to be there 100%.
- Right?
- Yeah.
Okay. Everybody to the right
side of the plane.
[LAUGHS] Just kidding.
Let me get in.
- Okay, one, two...
- [MAN] Go on.
[WHOOPING, CHEERING]
- Mama, look.
- Look at what?
The mountains.
They're so beautiful. Look.
[EUGENIA SIGHS] Don't make me
look at the mountains, Susana.
- They look like big teeth.
- Oh, don't worry.
We're gonna be on the ground
in 20 minutes.
Good. [SIGHS] Let's talk
about something else.
- Have a chocolate.
- [CHUCKLES] Thank you.
It's clouding up a bit.
Just stay above the weather.
No problem.
What's more important to you?
Rugby or girls?
Girls. You?
Girls.
But when I'm playing rugby,
it's the most important thing.
Unless girls are watching?
- Right.
- [LAUGHING]
Come on, man, switch seats.
I want to see the mountains.
[STEWARD] Don't climb
on the seats, okay?
- Watch yourself.
- All right.
Uruguayan 571,
cleared to 10,000 ft. Thank you.
Your tea, sir.
Thank you.
Turning on the seat belt sign,
steward.
Get those kids to sit down
back there.
We're gonna go to a little
weather on our approach.
Okay.
We'll be landing soon.
Everybody, please sit down.
All right, guys.
Do you think they hear you?
- Come on now. Sit down.
- [ALL EXCLAIMING]
[ALL EXCLAIMING]
See? I told you. Now sit down!
All right. Anything to calm
your nerves.
[ALL EXCLAIMING]
[WOMAN] What's going on?
Look what Alonso's doing.
Ladies and gentlemen,
put on your parachutes!
We're jumping into the Andes!
Put that down and sit down.
- [ALL] Ooh!
- All right, all right.
[CHEERING]
[SIGHS]
Put that cigarette out.
[WOMAN SCREAMS]
Whoa!
My God!
[MAN] You okay?
Nando, is everything all right?
Yes, everything's fine.
It's just an air pocket.
Mom, it scared me, too.
[BEEPING]
Mother of God, no!
- Oh, shit!
- Full throttle. Come on!
[PILOT] Come on!
What happened?
Are we supposed to fly
that close to the mountains?
Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with Thee...
[BEEPING]
[PILOT] Power!
We need more power! [GRUNTS]
I can't...!
[SCREAMING]
[WHIMPERING]
[WIND HOWLING]
[CREAKING]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
Oh, man!
It's stopped.
Jesus!
I think I'm all right.
Alex?
[GUSTAVO] He's dead!
- Zerbino, are you okay?
- People are hurting, Antonio.
I've only been in med school
six months.
- [ANTONIO] Help me out.
- Okay.
Eduardo. Where's he going?
Is Canessa okay?
Yes.
- Where's Eduardo?
- He went back.
- You'd better go get him.
- Eduardo, come back.
Help Canessa. Help him.
Lilliana!
Lilliana.
I'm all right.
[PANTING]
[WHISPERS] I can't breathe.
It's the altitude.
You're okay.
Just relax and breathe.
- What should I do?
- Look up there.
Canessa! Help Federico.
His leg is cut.
I'm fine.
Help the wounded.
I saved us.
I said the Hail Mary.
- We didn't expect...
- Move out the way.
[CARLITOS] What should I do?
Go to the back, get some air.
Okay.
[MAN] Here. Just sit here.
You are okay.
I'm going to use a handkerchief
to clean your nose. Okay?
[EXCLAIMS]
Bobby! Bobby Francois!
Hey, Carlitos! Smoke?
Yeah.
[COUGHING, GROANING]
Stay with me, please.
There's two dead in baggage.
The Solanos.
- [FELIPE] Please!
- Stay with Felipe.
[MRS. ALFONSIN SCREAMING]
[SHUSHING]
Easy, ma'am, easy.
My legs!
Yes, ma'am,
I'm sorry about your legs.
- Roy, are you hurt?
- I don't know.
Come on, then.
Help me. Come on.
Take the other side.
One, two, three!
[ANTONIO] Alberto.
[ROY] Dead.
I'm not dead.
Never felt worse in my life,
but I am not dead.
[MAN] I-I got check
on the others.
All right.
Let's move this stuff.
Argh! Be careful!
Both my legs are broken.
[ANTONIO] How's Nando?
I don't think so.
Maybe it's just as well.
His mother's dead.
Please. Please.
- Other people are hurt.
- It's okay, Felipe.
- I'll stay with you.
- Thank you.
Got a minute?
What, Pablo?
It's this. Is it serious?
- Forget it. You're all right.
- You think so?
Yeah, don't worry about it.
You're strong as an ox.
Give a hand with this seat
over here. Come on.
[PABLO GASPS]
Here. Tie it up with this shirt,
and I'll see to it later.
Water.
[GRUNTS]
[SOBBING] Mama! Mama!
I want to go home!
[SUSANA SOBBING]
Sit her down here.
Canessa. Canessa!
You better go see the pilot.
Okay. Help me move her.
[ANTONIO] Okay, we're gonna give
it one more try, Mrs. Alfonsin.
- No, don't. You'll kill me.
- [ANTONIO] We've got to do it.
Let them do it, ma'am.
They've got to do it.
[ROY] Maybe we shouldn't.
One, two, three, pull!
[MRS. ALFONSIN]
Stop! Stop! Stop!
[ROY] We're going to kill her!
[MRS. ALFONSIN GROANING]
I gotta stop. Can't do this.
- My arms...
- This is horrible!
- All right!
- [MRS. ALFONSIN] Don't touch it!
[CANESSA] Let's get
these loose chairs out,
make some room in here.
[MAN] Watch his leg.
[PILOT WHIMPERING]
Water. Water.
Hand me some snow.
Here.
Where's the radio?
We should call Santiago.
We passed Curico.
I found the radio.
My bag.
How do we call Santiago?
Eleven... 300.
[ZERBINO] I got the dial.
11, 300. Okay.
It's dead.
There's no power at all.
[PILOT] My bag.
He wants his bag.
There isn't much in the floor.
I don't see his bag.
- We're looking. What's in it?
- My... [WHEEZING]
My...
My gun. My gun.
No, my friend,
we can't be a part of that.
Put this up on that side.
My hands are freezing!
Well, it's too late.
The rescuers will never
see us today.
- I guess we'll spend the night.
- Rescuers?
How the hell
they're gonna find us?
Don't worry, they will find us.
The temperature will drop
when it gets dark.
- Maybe 30, 40 degrees.
- Don't worry.
We'll deal with that.
Don't worry.
[MAN] I'm cold.
These covers come off.
We can use them as blankets.
That's a good idea.
Everybody, let's unzip
these covers off the sits,
to use as blankets.
Pablo. How's your stomach?
Good. Fine.
Good.
- [MAN SCREAMING]
- Hey, hey, hey, hey.
- Who's that?
- Canessa. Come on!
I thought it was just a coat,
but when I went to take it,
there he was.
- Are you hurt?
- Identify yourself!
Identify yourself!
My name is Roberto Canessa.
I'm a medical student.
I'm a member of the rugby team
that chartered this plane.
You're a member
of the flight crew, aren't you?
Aren't you?
Yes. I'm the mechanic.
Do you know how to fix radios?
No.
[SOBBING]
You took this coat off a girl,
- didn't you?
- No!
You're right.
This is Anna Parrado's coat.
Go put it back on her.
Take it off her again,
I'll kill you.
Excuse me.
- How you doing?
- I'm going to bed.
That way?
Come on, Eduardo.
He bumped his head.
Hey, Roberto?
Want some wine?
Thanks.
Where'd you get wine?
Hugo found a shitload
of bottles in this cargo.
He thinks it was the pilot's.
Well, it would explain
how he flew his plane.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
We're completely screwed.
I don't know.
Get back there
and help the others.
We're gonna be fine.
Who are you trying to convince,
Antonio?
I had no premonition.
So much for ESP.
That was a very good idea
about the seat covers.
Thank you.
Have some wine.
Thanks.
[ROY] Got all the covers.
[CANESSA] Put them inside.
Near the front.
[MRS. ALFONSIN] I'm dying!
Oh, my sweet God in Heaven,
the pain!
I'm in so much pain.
It must be terrible.
Calm yourself.
God will take care of you.
My legs!
God forgive you all
for not helping me!
- I'm in agony!
- Shut up!
Shut up, you stupid cow,
or I'll punch your face in!
[WHIMPERING]
I swear to God, I will.
Shut up.
[GROANING, WHIMPERING]
God, it's cold!
It's too cold!
Antonio!
It's too cold.
We're going to freeze.
Roy.
- Roy! Come on, Roy.
- [GROANS]
We've got to stuff up this hole.
Come on,
or we'll freeze to death!
- With what?
- With the luggage and stuff.
- Come on. Come on!
- I'm so cold, Antonio.
- Grab a suitcase.
- What are you doing?
- Come on. You too, Rafael.
- I'm freezing!
We've got to stuff up this hole.
Here, help me
with this seat, Rafael.
- We put it on the bottom...
- [ROY] Okay.
...with the suitcases.
Give me a hand.
[INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
Carlitos?
Are you awake?
Are you serious?
- Know what I think?
- What?
I think Nando's not so bad.
[MRS. ALFONSIN GROANS]
I don't know.
[HUGO] Let's put him between us
so we keep him warm.
Be careful with his head.
Move him over.
Blanket.
Canessa, Hugo's trying
to revive Nando.
I'm not doing anything else
to help anybody.
I've done enough!
I hate these idiots.
If you don't shut up,
I'll hate you too!
Leave me alone.
I feel sick to my stomach.
[LILLIANA] Here.
Try and sleep, Javier.
It's just altitude sickness.
Don't be scared.
Thanks.
[MRS. ALFONSIN GROANING]
[GRUNTS]
Well, we have cigarettes.
Yeah.
How will they find us?
They have to know
about where we went down.
Don't worry, they'll find us.
[COUGHING]
- What happened?
- You knocked your head.
- We crashed?
- Yeah.
Unbelievable.
He's dead.
Help me move him out.
- [SUSANA] Roberto.
- He's dead?
- Yeah.
Help move him to the back.
We have to keep these
out of the cabin.
[ZERBINO] Come on,
Carlitos, help me.
How are you, Susana?
My feet hurt.
Anybody with a broken arm or leg
should go and lay it
in the snow.
It'll help the swelling go down.
They've gotten cold.
How's that?
Thank you.
What's the story in here?
They're both dead.
You're the mechanic, right?
- Do you have any signal flares?
- No.
Emergency supplies?
No. Nothing like that.
- What's wrong with him?
- What's wrong with you?
What about the radio?
Can it be made to work?
God! Not without batteries!
Well, are there batteries
or not?
Huh?
The batteries are in the tail,
and the tail's gone!
[LAUGHS HYSTERICALLY]
Forget him, he's crazy.
Anyway, it doesn't really matter
about the radio.
It would be nice,
but they'll find us
- with or without a radio.
- Are you sure?
I haven't a doubt in my mind.
[CARLITOS] Who's that?
The woman who was screaming
all night, Mrs. Alfonsin.
Don't tell me it's her.
What's the matter?
I yelled at her,
told her to shut up.
We all wanted to, Carlitos.
But I did. Now, she's dead.
I'm so ashamed.
[SOBBING] God forgive me!
Take it easy.
[ALL] Our Father,
who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done,
on Earth as it is in Heaven.
Give us this day
our daily bread,
and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those
who trespass against us.
Lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil.
Amen.
[ANTONIO] Chocolate-covered
peanuts, small chocolate bars,
four bottles of wine,
half bottle of run
and nine crackers.
How many of us are there?
Twenty-seven.
- We're gonna starve.
- Look...
this weather can't last.
There'll probably be helicopters
coming over those mountains
this afternoon.
But we'll be careful
and ration what we have.
I like a big lunch.
One capful of wine,
one square of chocolate each.
I prefer a big lunch
to a big dinner.
Come on. Form a line.
[MAN] Careful.
Thank you, Antonio for the teeny
chocolate piece.
You're welcome.
Fill this.
It's not for me.
- And who's it for?
- Nando.
- He's unconscious.
- He still gets a share.
Give it to him.
The king is generous today.
Lift up his head.
He looks better.
Yeah. He looks fabulous.
[MAN 1] Thank God
we have cigarettes.
[MAN 2] Thousands of cigarettes.
[MAN 3] I could smoke till
my brain dries up, you know?
[AIRPLANE FLYING OVERHEAD]
What's that?
It's an airplane!
It's the search party!
If we can't see them,
they can't see us.
[LILLIANA HUMMING]
[PEOPLE SHIVERING]
What is that you're humming?
"The Look of Love."
How beautiful.
I'm thinking about our children.
Yeah.
Me too. Home.
[LILLIANA CONTINUES HUMMING]
[SOBBING]
[PETER] There's one of these
inside the back of each chair.
- [MAN] Uh-huh.
- [PETER] Snow.
It'll melt and make water.
You're a genius, Peter.
This is terrific.
Make more of these.
I'll mark off a big square
of snow
so nobody will piss on it.
Daniel, come help me.
Antonio's got the makings
of a dictator, right?
No comment.
[GUITAR STRUMMING]
- Coche?
- Yeah?
Play "Flight
of the Bumble Bee."
Fuck you.
To be fair to this dilemma,
this is a beautiful spot.
Not a tree, not a bird,
not a blade of grass.
Yeah, paradise.
You guys could help.
There's things to do here.
Stuff it, Roy!
[SNICKERS]
I'll pay for the pizza
if you go and get it.
[LAUGHING]
How are you doing?
Let me sleep.
Canessa
What?
Canessa, look at Nando.
I think he's all right.
- I think he's waking up.
- Nando?
Nando.
See? I told you.
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
Don't grind your teeth,
you'll ruin your smile.
Nando.
Focus on me. Come on.
Focus on me. Focus on me.
[NANDO GROANS]
[SIGHS] Roberto Canessa.
- [MAN] He knows you.
- Yeah. [BREATHING HEAVILY]
What happened?
We crashed.
My mother?
She's dead.
[SOBBING]
No, no, no, Nando.
Listen! Forget your mother!
Your sister's alive.
Susana's alive.
She needs you 'cause
she's hurt. She needs you
- to take care of her.
- Where is she?
You need to rest first.
You've being unconscious.
Where is she? Where is she?
Susana!
- Susana!
- Nan...
Nando?
Susana?
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
I'm here now.
Hey!
[SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY]
[CHEERING]
There's a plane! Come on!
Can they see us?
- Of course they can!
- Hey!
- Here we are!
- Beautiful!
Hey!
He dipped his wings!
Yeah! He dipped his wings!
The wings, they dipped!
I saw it!
- You saw it too?
- I saw it!
I knew they would find us!
I knew it!
[CHEERING]
We're saved!
We're going home!
- Pizza for everybody!
- Yes!
[MAN] We're going home,
Federico! We're going home.
[FEDERICO] Thank God!
- How are you guys doing?
- Fine.
- Good.
- Drink some of this.
Thank.
What about the rationing?
We've been seen. Drink.
Yeah.
[SINGING "SILENT NIGHT"]
Antonio's asleep.
Look at Roy.
He's asleep too.
He even sleeps
to Antonio's beat.
He's like his dog.
[LAUGHING]
Carlitos, pass the piss pot.
How will they save us?
[MAN] Helicopters.
A plane. A big plane.
There has to be helicopters,
Pedro.
- There's no place to land.
- We landed.
Yeah, right! We landed
like that. [CLICKING FINGERS]
What is that?
Chocolate.
Go on. It's only got to last
until tomorrow.
He's right.
Give me a piece.
Do you think we should be
doing that?
Why not? It's over.
The helicopters are coming
in the morning.
We should wait
till we see the helicopters.
[ALL] Oh...
- How are you feeling?
- Not bad. Time to eat?
Yeah.
- Where are they?
- They're coming.
It's gonna be dark soon.
What's this?
What the hell is this?!
What's the matter?
Am I losing my mind?
I must be losing my mind.
Who has been in this box?
What pig has been in this box?
Don't you know that you're
playing with our lives?
There's virtually nothing left!
Why didn't you take a knife
and slit our throats
while we slept?
Who was it?
It was me.
I can't believe it!
I thought they were
picking us up.
And they will!
But it could be a land rescue!
They may have to come
to these mountains on foot!
It could take days, a week!
We have nothing to eat!
We're trapped!
I know, Antonio, but I thought
they were coming this morning.
Who are you to dare
with my life? Huh?
Who are you
against the rest of us?
It wasn't just him, Antonio.
I stole food too.
- [MAN 1] Me, too.
- [MAN 2] I drank wine.
- I ate chocolate.
- Me too.
Everybody took some, Antonio,
except for maybe
Javier and Lilliana.
The only reason I didn't
is because I'm nauseous.
Not to me!
[SNICKERS]
Am I the leader of this group?
I don't know. Are you?
I'm the captain of the team.
Is this still a team,
or a bunch of cut-throats now
after each other?
Answer me!
Shall we take a vote?
We don't need to.
You're leader.
Answer me this, Antonio.
If they saw us,
even if it is a land rescue,
why haven't they
dropped any supplies?
They could have done that.
They would have
done that by now.
Uh, I have an idea to build
two hammocks
for Federico and Alberto.
It would be better
for their legs.
- You gonna help me, Zerbino?
- Sure.
I'll help too.
I saw some poles and straps.
I'm sure we can do it.
It's been five days.
This is the fifth day.
I'm hungry.
- [CANESSA] Lift it up.
- [ZERBINO] Okay.
[GRUNTS] Just like new.
Okay, we need two more belts.
[CLATTERING]
Hey, look! It's a radio!
I wish it were a transmitter.
- Does it work?
- [STATIC]
I hear static.
You'd better get it to Antonio
right away
- before he starts yelling.
- Okay.
Will we get this done
before dark or what?
Sure.
[GRUNTS]
[STATIC]
I can hear something.
We'll have to make an aerial.
Where are the planes?
- How is she?
- I don't know. She's asleep.
And how are you, Nando?
Me? Fine. Don't worry.
No helicopters yet.
She's dying.
You can't know that.
And when she's dead,
I'm gonna climb out of these
goddamned mountains,
back to my father,
back to my room in my house.
How you're gonna do that?
- You'll freeze to death.
- Not if I wear enough clothes.
You'd starve to death.
You can't climb a mountain
on a little piece of chocolate
and a sip of wine.
Then I'll cut some meat
off the pilots.
After all, they got us
into this mess. [SNICKERS]
[CHUCKLES]
How you doing?
Okay. You?
I'm better.
At least I'm off the floor.
- Right.
- [ALBERTO] How's your leg?
I don't know.
Mine are bad.
It'll be okay.
[STATIC]
["DO YOU KNOW THE WAY
TO SAN JOSE" PLAYING]
- [ZERBINO] Nando.
- Ah, thanks.
[FEDERICO] Have you looked
at Alberto's legs?
Yeah.
Alberto's legs are
much worse than mine.
Alberto and you
both have problems.
Let me tell you something,
Roberto.
My name is Federico Aranda
and I will return.
Okay.
Now, Alberto's in much
worse shape than me.
We've got to keep an eye
on Alberto.
Okay. Okay, Federico.
Shut up! Shut up!
Don't talk that way!
- All I said was Antonio...
- Don't say it again.
- What's happening?
- Antonio heard on the radio
- that no planes have seen us.
- Yet.
- It looks bad.
- Shut up, Rafael!
We're gonna have to climb.
Maybe we can find the tail.
The batteries are in the tail.
We can work the transmitter,
call for help.
We've got to do something.
We're going to starve.
Tomorrow, we climb.
How much further is it?
Come on!
[PANTING]
[CANESSA] Come on!
- I can't!
- I'm dying for a breath.
Come on.
Let's take one more push.
Let's do it! That's it.
[SCREAMS]
Hold on!
Come on, grab my feet.
Hold on to them!
[SCREAMING]
[CANESSA] We got you!
Hold on, Canessa!
[INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
Pull me up!
[GRUNTING]
[PANTING]
That was terrible.
I could use some oxygen.
Yeah. Me, too.
We're gonna have to go back.
This is harder than I thought.
I'm so weak.
- Know what Nando said?
- [CANESSA] What?
He said if he gets too weak,
he'll eat one of the pilots.
You know,
for crashing the plane.
We better get back.
When the sun drops,
we'll freeze.
Curico.
Pilot said we'd just passed it.
There it is, well into Chile.
Where did you find the map?
I found it.
[MAN] He's made a science of it.
[ALBERTO] This valley
opens only to the east.
It leads deeper
into the mountains.
The way out is to the west.
To the west is Chile.
Over these mountains are
the green valleys of Chile.
- We can forget that.
- Alberto has a map.
It'll take more than a map
to get out of here.
We've just tried to climb
a little hill,
and it kicked our asses.
Who'll climb one
of those mountains, Superman?
At this altitude, with no food,
we're weak as kittens.
I'll tell you right now.
Either we're saved
or we're dead.
The time has come.
No more bullshit.
We've got to pray, man.
Let's say the rosary.
I'm not saying the rosary,
Carlitos. I'm an agnostic.
Don't say it, then.
See if God saves you.
Anybody else want
to roll the dice that way, fine!
- Hail Mary, full of grace...
- [ALL] The Lord is with Thee.
Blessed art thou amongst women
and blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, mother of God,
pray for us sinners, now
and at the hour of our death.
Amen.
[ALL CONTINUE PRAYING]
I'm not God, you know?
I can't save you.
I can't be responsible.
I tried because I'm captain,
but who could do this?
Who has the strength?
Hey, don't be a fool.
That's right, you're not God.
[SNIFFLES]
Don't take so much on and you
won't feel so bad, Antonio.
[MAN] Everybody knows you've
done plenty to keep us together.
I can't help it.
I think of my mother.
I think about my children.
It's the same for me.
[JAVIER] And you'll see
them again.
[LILLIANA] I know I will.
I know I will.
Susana's dead.
My sister's dead.
I'm sorry, Nando.
I'll keep her by me tonight,
and tomorrow I'll take her out.
She won't need her coat.
I can't believe it, Roy.
I can't believe it.
[SOFTLY] They've called off
the search. They've given up.
They think we're dead.
I'll kill you! I'll kill you!
You promised! You promised me!
[GRUNTS]
[PANTING]
What's going on?
I heard on the radio.
They called off the search.
Get up.
Better go tell the others.
I can't.
It'll kill everybody's hope.
What's so great about hope?
Hey, Daniel!
Get everybody together.
All right, all right.
Is everybody here?
Yeah, we're all here.
Okay. Listen,
I got something to tell you.
Good news,
they called off the search.
How is that good news?
'Cause it means we're going
to get out of here on our own.
We're gonna save ourselves.
Alberto, Chile's to the west,
right?
That's right.
He's crazy!
It won't work. When we try
to climb, we had no strength.
It's true.
That's 'cause you had no food.
If the search's been called off,
then we're on our own
to save our lives,
and we've got to eat.
Eat what?
[MURMURING]
No.
The dead?
- [GASPS]
- No.
He means we should eat the dead.
That's right.
We should eat the dead.
It's what we've got to face.
Oh, no. Nando!
Nando's right.
- What?
- I can't believe
what I'm hearing.
You too, Roberto?
You're talking
about eating people!
I'm talking about eating meat
so we don't die.
- I couldn't do it. I couldn't!
- It's disgusting.
It's disgusting, so what?
If I had a wound rotting
and needed to be washed out
wouldn't you do it,
even if it was disgusting,
- because it needed to be done?
- I would.
- But I wouldn't eat you.
- [LAUGHS]
- Shut up!
- Sorry.
Do you believe we have a soul,
and when we die,
it leaves our body?
I don't know.
I'm not a priest!
Okay.
I don't want to talk about it.
Neither do I, but we have to.
We're starving and trapped.
If the soul leaves when we die,
then the body is a carcass.
This is the beginning
of the end.
What's out there in the snow
is just meat, Antonio.
Food.
I won't do it.
I'd rather die.
I believe in God,
and I fear to have Him judge me
if I do a thing like that.
He put us here.
Maybe he did, as a test,
to see what we'd do,
to see if we'd remain civilized.
I don't think God cares
- whether we're civilized...
- How the hell do you know?
[MAN] Let Tintin speak.
He never says anything.
I always thought God wants us
to follow our hearts,
use our reason,
struggle to live.
- [ZERBINO] At any price?
- No.
We shouldn't murder
innocents to live.
[ZERBINO]
What about our innocence?
What'll become our innocence
if we survive as cannibals?
I'm sorry, but I can't do it.
I'm with you.
I don't think I could do it.
How could we go back
to our families?
You could go back alive.
I think they'd prefer that.
Roberto, are you ready
to go out there,
and cut flesh from a human body
and eat it?
[SOBBING]
None of us can decide
a thing like this.
We're alone here.
We could be on the moon,
Jesus Christ.
There must've been situations
like this all the way back,
the first people.
I don't know.
There's nothing left for us
to do but pray.
So?
They're going to pray.
We'll decide in the morning.
[SIGHS]
[MAN] What have we done
that God now asks us
to eat the bodies
of our dead friends?
What you think
they would've thought?
I don't know.
I can't sleep.
[WHISPERS]
Hey, don't waste the battery.
I know that if I died...
if my dead body could
help you stay alive...
I'd want you to use it.
In fact, If I do die
and you don't eat me,
I'll come back from wherever
I am and kick your ass!
[CHUCKLES]
That's a good one.
Take my hand and pledge with me.
Whoever dies, agrees...
"Use my body as food."
All right.
I pledge...
- I agree.
- Me, too.
- I'm in.
- [MAN] Me, too.
- Carlos?
- I'm thinking.
Antonio?
Nando?
Yeah.
Can you just promise,
if you eat me,
that you clean your plates?
God bless you all.
Pablo!
- Pablo.
- Yah?
- How's your stomach?
- Oh, it's fine.
Lift your shirt. Let me see.
- Looks great.
- Told you.
You should be dead, you know.
So what do you think, Tintin?
I think we should eat.
If we do this,
we'll never be the same again.
It's like Communion.
From their death, we live.
People will understand.
This should be good
for the cutting.
All right. Give me that.
[BREATHING DEEPLY]
It's very difficult to cut.
The meat's almost frozen.
I'm going to eat this piece.
Somebody take this.
Someone take this and eat it.
Come on!
I tell you one thing.
If I have meat in my belly,
I intend to get something done.
Where were you?
You didn't take from my sister,
did you?
No.
No. It wasn't a woman.
I don't know who it was.
How are the others eating?
- One by one.
- Good.
[SNIFFLES]
I'll do what I can, Roberto.
I'm strong when I'm strong.
When I'm not, it's your turn.
God, she was so beautiful.
[SNIFFLES]
Son of a bitch!
They went without me?
You can't go till you eat,
anyway.
[MAN] They're gonna look
for the tail.
The batteries! With them,
you can work a transmitter.
Can't see them anymore.
[PANTING]
Look at that!
Tonight, we pray
for the climbers,
that they come back to us.
So you pray too, Fito.
Not me. I told you,
I'm an agnostic.
- [CHUCKLES]
- Fito.
[ALL] Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with Thee.
Blessed art thou amongst women,
and blessed is
the fruit of thy womb...
Eat this. Eat it!
You think they're okay?
No. The way
they were dressed...
Had to be 35, 40 below
last night.
They're dead.
[WHIMPERING]
[WIND HOWLING]
It's the sun.
No, we're dreaming.
- What...?
- What?
What?
It's the sun. Thank God!
[MAN] Look! It's a seat
from the plane!
[GRUNTS]
It's heavy. Help me!
Ready? Go!
[GRUNTING]
He must've burned.
- What are you doing?
- I'm taking his wallet
and whatever he has
for his mother.
Hey.
There's more over here.
This accounts for those
that are still missing.
Altogether three.
My feet are starting
to freeze again.
We should go back.
Do you want to try something?
[ALL] Whoo!
[LAUGHING]
[FEDERICO] Why does it smell
so bad even after you clean it?
It's the infection.
I'll clean it again tonight.
Don't look so downhearted,
Roberto.
Take a lesson from Alberto.
Nothing stops him.
I have abandoned
the Church of Rome
in favor of Utopia.
Good for you, Alberto.
And for my part,
my name is Federico Aranda
and I will return.
How is Federico?
He has gangrene, I think.
I know Alberto does.
[NANDO] Canessa. Canessa!
- [DISTANT YELLING]
- Look at this! Look at this!
- [MAN] Watch out!
- [LILLIANA] They're flying.
[ALL] Whoo!
What the hell! Watch out!
- Watch out!
- To freedom!
- [LAUGHS]
- Watch out!
[WHOOPING]
[CHEERING]
They didn't die, Roberto.
Anything is possible.
Whoo-hoo!
There was a piece of the wing.
So the tail must be
up there somewhere.
Here's the plan I propose.
We pick a team to go
after the tail.
- I'll go.
- Me, too.
We feed the team the biggest
rations,
give them the warmest clothes.
And then in, I don't know,
a week,
we go up there,
we find the tail,
get the batteries, bring them
back, crank up the transmitter.
- It gets cold up there.
- I couldn't do it again.
Yeah. Me neither.
I need more money.
Here.
I wish we could have
a fire every night,
and that someone
would go for pizza.
I'll pay if you go.
No, I insist.
I'll pay, you go.
I feel God has taken care of us.
Don't you feel it?
A sense of fate?
I feel a sense of fate.
[BANGING]
[ANTONIO] Hi.
I wanted you all to know...
if I die,
you have my permission.
You can eat me.
[LAUGHING]
If anybody could hear this!
Sit down, Antonio.
[MAN] Coche, it's too bad
you didn't play the cello!
[LAUGHING]
Javier?
- What?
- I've decided something.
What's that, sweetie?
I want to have another baby.
This experience, it's just...
It's made me feel
this miracle of life so deeply.
It's not that, my dear.
It's just that
you're not eating.
If you don't eat, how will you
live to have another baby?
You're right.
I'll eat some.
I'll do it.
- I'll eat tomorrow.
- [WHISPERS] Baby.
Yeah. I'll eat tomorrow.
God bless you.
[WIND WHOOSHING]
[RUMBLING]
[SCREAMING]
[LIGHTER CLICKING]
[PANTING]
[GROANING]
Where is everyone?
I don't know.
Shine the light over here.
[INDISTINCT SCREAMING]
Avalanche!
[SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY]
- [MAN] Eduardo! Eduardo!
- [SCREAMING]
Get out! Get out!
I can't see! I can't see!
- You all right?
- Yeah.
- Who is it?
- Zerbino.
Help!
Antonio.
Here's somebody!
Go, go, go!
[MAN] Pablo!
Lilliana!
Hold on!
I'll get...
Lilliana! Help me!
For God's sake,
help me get my wife!
Lilliana!
[CRYING] Please don't take her
from me now!
[MAN] He's breathing. Nando!
Keep digging.
God, please! Nando!
Get him out!
Pull! Pull him out!
[MAN] Eight are dead.
Eight of us are dead.
[GRUNTING]
[WIND HOWLING]
[PANTING]
We can't go out.
There's a blizzard.
Let me see.
Roberto...
listen,
today is Rafael's birthday.
So?
We've got to observe
his birthday.
[ALL]
Happy birthday to you
Happy birthday, dear Rafael
Make a wish.
A wish?
I just wish this was over.
- It's still snowing.
- It's a blizzard.
Roberto, you're not gonna
believe this.
What?
Today is my birthday.
[ALL]  Happy birthday,
dear Carlitos
I love you all so much.
[ALL]  Happy birthday to you
And my wish... My wish...
[CARLITOS] Tonight, we say
the rosary for the living
and for life itself.
That we have survived
a plane crash,
starvation and an avalanche.
And tonight, Fito,
no more kidding.
You've got to pray
the rosary with us.
I'm not saying no rosary,
Carlitos. I'm an agnostic.
[RUMBLING]
What's that?
My God, it's another avalanche!
Hail Mary, full of grace,
the Lord is with Thee.
[ALL] Blessed art thou
amongst women
and blessed is
the fruit of thy womb, Jesus.
[RUMBLING STOPS]
Alberto.
Light.
[CARLITOS] Canessa. Zerbino.
[CANESSA]
Good morning, Carlitos.
Good morning, my friends.
Do you know what today is?
[SIGHS] No. What?
Today is my father's birthday.
My father is an artist,
a painter,
and a bit of a madman.
And now in my heart,
with the rise of the sun,
I do believe I'll see him again.
- [CARLITOS] Do you feel it?
- [ROY] What?
[CARLITOS] God.
God is everywhere today.
Help. Over here! I'm here!
[GRUNTING]
This is where the dead were.
Gone under the snow now.
It's about the closest
they'll get to a burial.
- I'm worried about Eduardo.
- Why?
He's losing his spirit.
When are we going?
Fifteenth.
The fifteenth passed by.
The fifteenth of next month.
That's too long.
Winter's ending.
The nights will get shorter.
It will get warmer.
We'll have a chance.
[ALBERTO CRYING SOFTLY]
Alberto...
why are you crying?
Because I am so close to God.
Shhhh. It's okay.
So beautiful.
It's beautiful.
[FEDERICO] Wake up, please.
Wake up, everyone.
My name is Federico Aranda,
and I have to tell you
that Alberto Antuna,
a brave boy, is dead.
He was 21 years old.
Eternal rest grant
unto them, O Lord.
[ALL] Let perpetual
light shine upon them.
May they rest in peace. Amen.
This should be enough to eat.
We should wait a few more days.
- Why?
- Because it'll be warmer.
I waited until the 15th.
On the 15th, you said
the weather was no good.
On the 16th, you said
I've been waiting on you
for four weeks, Roberto.
Put your pack on, this is it.
All right.
How are you doing, Federico?
Very well, Nando.
Good luck on your journey.
Thank you. They tell me
you won't eat, Javier.
Yeah.
It's up to you if you want
to get out of here.
Perhaps.
Forget your wife! Forget her!
Remember your living children!
[SIGHS]
Will you eat?
I'll eat. I'll eat.
Good.
Stay well, Federico.
Pray for me.
I will.
When we find the tail, we'll
come back with the batteries.
And if you don't?
If we don't find the tail,
we'll keep going.
Going where?
Through the mountains?
We'll find the tail.
Roy, you got the radio
or the panel yet?
Just about.
There's a lot of wires.
We'll figure it out.
All right, Eduardo, see these?
- Little shoes.
- [CHUCKLES]
Yeah, little red shoes.
Take this one.
When these are a pair again,
you're going to be going home.
All right?
Okay.
All right. Let's do it!
[CARLITOS] Where'd you learn
about transmitters?
I didn't. I helped my cousins
put together their stereos.
Now I'm the radio man.
Our lives depend
on this radio, Roy.
Who asked you? Don't upset me!
I'm emotional as it is.
Come on. Leave him alone.
Let's go.
Hey!
Wait till you see...
You're not gonna believe it!
[LAUGHING]
Chocolate!
[BOTH LAUGH]
Sweaters!
Clean underwear!
A comic book I haven't read!
Toothpaste!
Delicious! [LAUGHS]
[ROBERTO LAUGHING]
This is a pretty good story.
Maybe we should
just keep walking tomorrow.
- What are you talking about?
- We found the batteries.
Bring them back,
transmit an SOS. That's it.
Unbelievable. All this time,
the tail was a three-hour walk.
Maybe we should
just walk to Chile.
What are you talking about?
You're talking shit.
We don't have the equipment
to climb these mountains.
We would die.
No, we bring the batteries back
and transmit an SOS. That's it.
One, two, three...
[BOTH GRUNTING]
[GRUNTS]
- That isn't going to work.
- [CANESSA] I don't know.
Maybe we should just
keep walking.
I'm not throwing my life away
walking into the mountains.
It's a stupid...
All right.
This is what we'll do.
We'll get radio here,
bring it back up here.
We can't hook up a radio.
We'll bring Roy.
I don't want to go.
We don't know anything
about radios.
I don't either! All these wires,
I don't know what they are for.
I just helped my cousins
with their stereo!
We had a booklet.
You're going!
You take it.
You're smarter than me!
I don't wanna go up in the snow!
I don't wanna go!
How much further is it?
We've been walking a long time!
I don't have any strength,
you know?
I feel sick and weak.
I wish he'd shut up.
This was your idea.
[CRACKLING]
- Careful!
- Sorry.
You'll burn something up.
Give me this.
It'll be dark soon.
I'm going to wrap this stuff
around my legs.
I wanna be warm tonight.
- [CRACKLES]
- Goddamn it!
- That was you!
- Why don't you two give that up?
Huh? We'll make a fire.
- Tintin.
- Yeah?
Let's make a fire.
This stuff worked good.
[SIGHS] I feel snug as a bug.
- What you think we should do?
- Fix the radio.
- But if we can't fix the radio?
- I don't think it's gonna work.
When it does work, Roy,
it won't be because of you!
- I never said I could fix...
- But if it doesn't work,
what you think we should do?
Huh, Tintin?
I don't know.
Whatever you two decide.
[SCOFFS] Mister Switzerland!
Well, I think that if the radio
doesn't work, we...
I'm not climbing
those mountains!
Then I'll go without you.
You'll die.
You'll freeze to death.
No, I won't. Not if we make a
sleeping bag out of this stuff.
There's enough stuff here
to make a bag.
[FIRE CRACKLING]
[SIGHS]
[TINTIN] Nando! Nando!
Look at this! Look.
Oh, wow!
- [TINTIN] Look at that cake.
- [NANDO] Ah...
Are we going the right way?
I think so.
[WIND HOWLING]
Come on!
I can't!
You know you can!
[ROY] Just leave me!
Nando, we got to keep going!
We get caught in this,
the sun goes down, we're dead.
- Go ahead!
- What about Roy?
You go ahead with Tintin.
Don't look back.
I'll get Roy to the plane!
I told you winter wasn't over!
- [ROY] Leave me!
- Come on!
- I can't walk!
I can't carry you.
You'll kill us both!
[SOBBING]
I can't!
What do you mean you can't, huh?
You piece of shit!
What you mean you can't?
You can't tell me
you can't do it!
Get up and walk ten steps.
- Get up and walk ten steps!
- All right!
It's them!
- Did the radio work?
- No.
Where's Nando?
I don't know.
Nando
Come on! Come on!
[PANTING]
Carlitos, here!
Thanks.
Didn't you see him?
Federico's dead!
No good.
- What do you mean no good?
- No good.
Canessa.
Try to sleep.
He's bad.
What's the matter with him?
Are you surprised? How long
can people live like this?
Carlitos says
the sleeping bag's ready.
It's not ready.
Yes. It's time to go.
It's time to make this trip.
We got caught in that storm.
We almost died.
I told you winter's not over!
Listen to me, Nando.
You got the will,
I give you that.
But I have the brains.
I say we wait.
- Until when?
- The sleeping bag's ready.
- The sleeping bag is ready!
- It's not ready!
Hey.
Rafael's dead.
It's time to go, Roberto.
It's time.
Before we turn into animals.
All right.
Nando.
I still got the shoe!
[CHUCKLES] I still got mine.
God be with you.
You'll be okay.
Thanks.
Wait! Wait!
Carlitos, let them go.
I forgot to tell you.
I had a dream last night,
a tremendous premonition.
I saw green fields and flowers.
I could smell the grass.
Your expedition will succeed.
Don't forget the pizza!
[NANDO] Here you go.
[GRUNTING]
That looks like a good place
to camp, right up there.
[SCREAMING]
[PANTING]
I think this is the top.
[CANESSA] Maybe this
leads somewhere.
[NANDO] Be careful.
[SCREAMS]
Help, please!
Nando! Nando!
You'll fall too!
Hang on, Roberto!
Give me the strap!
I'll get you. Now hold on!
- Nando!
- Hold on!
You got me?
Hold on!
I got you.
Hurry!
- Hurry!
- [NANDO] I got you, I got you!
- You got me?
- [TINTIN] Yes.
[ROBERTO] Hurry up!
[NANDO] Hold on!
[GRUNTING]
Now, Tintin! Get me up!
[STRAINING]
[BOTH GRUNTING]
Grab hold of me.
Pull yourself! Go over me!
[PANTING]
So what do you think?
You want to try the other way?
[PANTING] Huh?
You ready, Roberto?
You see that line?
- That's a road.
- [NANDO] I can't see anything.
[CANESSA]
Do you see it, Tintin?
I see a line.
I couldn't say if it was a road.
I think we should go back.
Go back?
Yeah.
This mountain's too high.
What do we do if we go back?
Go to the road.
It might be a road,
it might not.
I've the best eyes.
That's a road.
I'm going back.
I'm going on.
[CANESSA] What are you
going to do, Tintin?
[STAMMERING]
I don't know.
How about this? We leave
our stuff here with you,
we go to the top and see.
Will you wait for us, Roberto?
All right.
Then I'm going back.
I'm going to see
a valley, a river.
green trees and hills.
[GRUNTS]
[PANTING]
[NANDO] Tintin! Tintin!
Go back and get Canessa.
Tell him it's gonna be
all right.
Tell him to come up
and see for himself.
[TINTIN] Canessa! Canessa!
Nando's at the top.
Did you get there?
No, but he says it's marvelous.
[PANTING]
I have to rest.
[CANESSA] Nando?
Mountains!
Nothing but mountains.
We've had it!
We've completely had it!
No, we haven't.
Through these mountains,
somewhere,
there's a green valley.
See these mountains over here?
There's no snow on them.
They must be 50 miles away.
You think you can walk 50 miles?
If we have to, we will.
- I can't.
- Yes, you can.
I can't.
I'm not as strong as you.
You know what it is
that we've lived this long,
the way we have? 70 days?
That we climbed this mountain?
You know what it is?
It's impossible.
It's impossible, and we did it.
I know.
I'm proud to be a man
on a day like this, alive!
That I lived to see it.
And see it in such a place,
take it in!
I love you, man! Look!
It's magnificent.
It's God.
It'll carry us
over every stone, I swear!
I swear to you.
All right. We'll get Tintin,
send him back to the plane.
We'll take his extra food.
You see? You see
where the sun's going to set?
That way's west.
And to the west are
the green valleys of Chile.
We're gonna die, you know?
Maybe.
But if we die,
we're gonna die walking.
Good luck!
[BIRDS SINGING]
[WIND HOWLING]
[DISTANT HELICOPTER
WHIRRING]
[WHIRRING CONTINUES]
Hey!
[CHEERING]
[ROY] We're going home!
[CARLITOS]
And so we were saved.
Nando and Canessa breached
the Andes and we were saved.
Later, a group went back
and buried the bodies.
They built a rough stone altar
by the grave,
and over it,
they placed an iron cross.
There's nothing more
I can tell you.
We were brought together
by a grand experience.
["AVE MARIA" PLAYING]
[UPBEAT ORCHESTRA MUSIC PLAYING]